---
external: false
draft: false
title: "Week 3: Music and Technology"
description: "Exploring the Influence of Technology on Musical Style and Interface"
date: 2023-08-07
---

## Lecture Notes

**Computers and Musical Style:** Technology has significantly influenced musical expression, with examples like the 2-3 minute duration of pop songs due to vinyl limitations and the squelchy bass of Acid House from Roland TB-303 bass synths. Other instances of technology shaping music include the use of the piano keyboard as a standard interface and step sequencers for programming music one step at a time.

**Strengths and Weaknesses of the Piano Keyboard:** The piano keyboard serves as a recognizable interface but may not capture the nuances of other instruments like guitars, saxophones, or drums. Manufacturers have introduced additional control features to enhance the keyboard interface.

**Step Sequencers:** Step sequencers, now incorporated into modern DAWs, allow for step-by-step programming of music loops. They are still found in drum machines and some synthesizers.

**Metronome and Click Track:** The metronome or click track has been essential in keeping musicians in time during multitrack recording. It offers a consistent tempo reference.

**Gate/CV Control System:** The gate/CV control system used two cables for triggering notes and controlling pitch, but its variations led to compatibility issues. Understanding its strengths and weaknesses is crucial.

**MIDI Files:** MIDI files provide performance data, enabling performances to be reconstructed with various instruments. Experimenting with MIDI can involve playing keyboard licks on different instruments, using them to trigger drums, and exploring MIDI processing functions in DAWs.